 1{Aaron}
Aaron was the son of Jochebed and Amram of the tribe of Levi, brother of Moses and Miriam, forebear and founder of the Israelite priesthood.
 Because Moses stuttered, Aaron served as a spokesman before both the Pharaoh and the Israelites.
 Aaron's position was officially established when God ordered Moses to consecrate him and his sons as priests.
 Aaron and his sons, Eleazar and Ithamar, officiated at Moses' side.
 Aaron died on Mount Hor, at age 123, near the Edom border, and his son, Eleazar, became the priest.
 332{Stephen}
 He accepted Christianity and became one of the seven deacons chosen by the disciples to take care of the widows and the needy people in Jerusalem.
 Stephen is described as a man who was unusually full of faith and the Holy Spirit.
 His adversaries grabbed him, dragged him out of the city and stoned him to death.
 During the stoning, Stephen prayed to Jesus, asking that his adversaries not be charged with the sin of killing him.
 Stephen became one of the first Christian martyrs.
 262{Nadab, King of Israel}
King Nadab was the son of King Jeroboam and became the second king of the northern kingdom of Israel.
 He was assassinated by Baasha while he was with Israel's army during its attack on the Philistine city of Gibbethon.
 261{Nadab Son of Aaron}
He was consecrated a priest along with his three brothers, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar to minister at the Tabernacle 
 He and Abihu were guilty of offering "profane fire before the Lord, such as He had not authorized", in the Sinai desert.
 Both he and Abihu died when "Fire came forth from the Lord's presence and consumed them.
 356{Zimri, King of Israel}
 He killed Elah, the son of Baasha, and declared himself king.
 He tried to protect his hold on the throne by killing the male heirs of Elah.
 He reigned for only seven days.
 When members of the army had learned of what he had done, they appointed Omri as their commander.
 After a successful attack by Omri and the army, he went into the palace and set fire to it.
 357{Zimri, Son of Salu}
He brought a Midianite woman named Cozbi into camp while Israel was repenting for having worshiped Baal.
 When Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, saw him take a Midianite woman to his tent, he was enraged, took a javelin in his hand, went into his tent, and thrust both of them through.
 281{Omri}
 Some wanted Omri to be the new king and others wanted Tibni.  A civil war broke out and Omri won.
 He became Israel's sixth king and reigned 12 years (882-871 BC).
 Omri bought land and built a palace on it.  He called the land Samaria, in honor of the former owner, Shemer.
Omri also strengthened Israel's alliance with Phoenicia, by arranging the marriage of his son, Ahab, to Jezebel, the daughter of the King of Sidon.
 290{Pekahiah}
Pekahiah was the 17th king of Israel, and the 6th to be assassinated.
 His father was King Menahem.
 His reign ended when he was assassinated by Pekah, a general in his army.
Pekahiah is described as an evil king who continued the worship of false idols that had been started by Jeroboam 1.
 289{Pekah}
Pekah became the 18th King of Israel after he assassinated King Pekahiah.
 Pekah was the son of Ramaliah.
 Pekah, as king, aligned himself with King Rezin of Damascus.
 Pekah was assassinated by Hoshea, who became the last king of the kingdom of Israel.
 151{Hoshea}
Hoshea was the 19th and final king of the ancient kingdom of Israel.
 He was the son of Elah and he became king after he assassinated King Pekah.
 King Hoshea's army was attacked and defeated in battle by King Shalmaneser of Assyria.
 196{Joash}
 Joash was the 12th King of Israel.
 He was the son of King Jehoahaz and he reigned 16 years.
 Elisha, the prophet, prophesied that Joash would have three victorious battles over the Syrians.
 King Amaziah of Judah goaded King Joash into a war.
 When Joash died, his son, Jeroboam 2, became king.
 67{Caleb}
 He was one of the twelve spies sent to scout the land of Canaan.  He gave an honest report, as did Joshua, and was granted entrance to the promised land later.
 When Israel entered Canaan forty years later, Caleb was granted by Joshua, the area around the city of Hebron, for his faithfulness.
Caleb married Ephrath, who bore him a son named Hur.
 Caleb promised the hand of his daughter Achsah in marriage to any Israelite who would conquer Debir, and Othniel won the battle.
 348{Zechariah, King of Israel}
He became the 14th King of Israel.
 He was the son of King Jeroboam II and he reigned for only 6 months around 746 BC.
 He was assassinated by Shallum, who then became king.
He was the fourth and final king to be descended from Jehu.
 347{Zechariah the prophet}
He was the son of Iddo and he was instrumental in inspiring his fellow Jews to rebuild the Temple.
He began prophesying during the same year as the prophet Haggai, in about 520 BC.
 His prophecies said that Jews would be persecuted worldwide, that Jerusalem would become a battleground of nations, and that Jerusalem would become the religious center of the world.
 349{Zechariah, the father of John the Baptist}
 He was husband of Elizabeth.
 While he was offering incense in the Temple, the angel Gabriel appeared to him, and told him that his wife who had been barren for many years would give birth to a son, and the son's name would be John.
 322{Shallum}
Shallum was the 15th king of Israel.
 He was the son of Jabesh and he reigned for only one month.
 He became king after he assassinated King Zechariah.
 Shallum was killed by Menahem, who then became king.
 254{Miriam}
 Moses' sister. 
 When the Pharaoh's daughter found Moses, Miriam approached Pharaoh's daughter and offered to help her find a Hebrew nurse to help care for the baby (Moses).
 Miriam has a victory dance of the Israelite women to celebrate the crossing of the Red Sea.
 Miriam and Aaron criticize Moses for marrying a Cushite woman, and then further rebel against Moses, claiming that they are equals as prophets.
 49{Barabbas}
Barabbas was the prisoner who was released by Pontius Pilate instead of Jesus.
 241{Matthias}
Matthias was chosen to become the 12th Apostle after the death of Judas.
 142{Herod Antipas}
Herod Antipas was the son of Herod the Great and brother to Herod Archelaus.
 He ruled over Galilee and Perea from 4 BC-39 AD.
 Jesus referred to him as “that fox” in Luke 13:32.
John the Baptist spoke out against Herod Antipas for his marriage, and for other things that he had done wrong.
Herod Antipas put John in prison and eventually beheaded him, at the request of Herodias.
 243{Menahem}
Menahem, son of Gadi, became the 16th King of Israel after he assassinated King Shallum.
He destroyed the city of Tappuah and the surrounding communities, killing everyone there.
King Tiglath-Pileser III of Assyria invaded Israel, but Menahem paid him off by raising 1,000 talents of silver by taxing wealthy Israelites.
 When Menahem died, his son, Pekahiah, became king.
 24{Ahaziah, King of Israel}
 He was the eighth king of the northern kingdom of Israel.
 He was the son of Ahab and Jezebel.
He fell off the balcony of his palace in Samaria and was seriously injured.
 His brother, Jehoram, became the new king, because he did not have a son to succeed him.
 25{Ahaziah, King of Judah}
He reigned for one year (843-842 BC) as the king of Judah when he was 22 years old.
 He was the son of Jehoram.
 His mother, Athaliah, was King Ahab's daughter.
He was killed by Jehu in Samaria.
 310{Reuben}
Reuben was the first child of Jacob and Leah, and the founder of the tribe of Reuben.
He had an affair with Bilhah, who was his father's concubine.
He intervened with his brothers to spare Joseph's life.
 77{Dan}
Dan was the fifth son of Jacob, and the first of Bilhah, who was the maid of Rachel.
 When Jacob blessed his sons in Genesis 49:16-18, it is stated that Dan would provide justice for his people.
 The Tribe of Dan is reprimanded in the Bible's Song of Deborah for not participating in the war against the Canaanites.
 44{Asher}
Asher was the eighth son of Jacob.
He was the second of Jacob's two sons by Zilpah, Leah's maid.
 When Jacob blesses his 12 sons in Genesis, chapter 49, he said that Asher would have a life blessed with an abundance of food and delicacies befitting a king.
 162{Jabez}
In the genealogy of the line of Judah it states that Jabez is more distinguished than his brothers, and that his mother named him Jabez because she had a difficult time during his birth.
He prayed to God to bless him at his work, and to keep him from evil and disaster, and God granted him his request.
 21{Ahab}
Ahab was the seventh King of Israel.
 He reigned for 22 years (871-852 BC).
 He was the son of Omri.
 He married Jezebel, daughter of Ethbaal, the king of the Sidonians.
After three years of drought, Elijah challenged Ahab and his pagan priests on Mount Carmel.
Elijah told Ahab that dogs would lick his blood outside of the city, just as they had licked the blood of Naboth.
 Ahab fought Ben-Hadad the King of Damascus in several wars, and then allied himself with Jehoshaphat, King of Judah to liberate Ramoth Gilead from the Arameans.
 192{Jezebel}
Jezebel was the wife of Ahab, who was king of Israel from about 871 BC to about 852 BC.
 She was the daughter of Ethbaal, the king of Sidon.
 Jezebel's daughter, Athaliah, became Queen of Judah, and she too was evil.
Elijah prophesized that Jezebel would be torn apart by the dogs of Jezreel.
 When Jehu sees Jezebel in a palace window, he called upon people in the palace to throw her down, and they threw her out of the window.
 223{Levi}
 His mother was Leah, who also gave birth to Reuben, Judah, Simeon, Issachar and Zebulun.
  Moses singled out the Tribe of Levi to serve as the nation's priests.
Instead of a land allotment, Joshua, who led the conquest of Canaan, gave 48 towns, scattered throughout the land of Israel, to the Tribe of Levi.
 160{Issachar}
 His mother was Leah, who also gave birth to Reuben, Judah, Simeon, Levi and Zebulun.
 When Jacob blessed his sons, Issachar was described as a beast of burden who would submit to forced labor.
 Issachar's name is often linked together with Zebulun, his brother.
 346{Zebulun}
 His mother was Leah, who also gave birth to Reuben, Judah, Simeon, Levi and Issachar.
The tribe of Zebulun played an important role in the victory against Sisera's army at the brook of Kishon, and in Gideon's victory against the Midianites.
 The tribe of Zebulun was renowned as seafarers.
 60{Benjamin}
Benjamin was the twelfth and youngest son of Jacob.
 Benjamin was born during the journey that Jacob and his family took from Padan Aram to Canaan.
When Jacob blesses his 12 sons, he describes Benjamin as a wolf that prowls, devouring his enemies in the morning and dividing up the spoils in the evening.
 81{David}
David was the youngest son of Jesse, the great-grandson of Boaz and Ruth, born in Bethlehem in the tribe of Judah.
 After killing Goliath, with a slingshot, he joined the entourage of King Saul, Israel's first king.
David defeated Ishbosheth the son of Saul, who was King of the northern tribes of Israel.
David committed adultery with Bathsheba and sent her husband Uriah to his death.
 God rebuked David through Nathan the prophet. 
David's first child by Bathsheba died seven days after birth.
He was an extraordinary musician and poet, and wrote many of the Psalms.
He had several wives and eight are mentioned by name in the Bible: Michal, Abigail, Bathsheba, Ahinoam, Maacah, Haggith, Abital, and Eglah.
 330{Simeon}
Simeon is the second son of Jacob and Leah, and the founder of the tribe of Simeon.
 Simeon was imprisoned by Joseph as a guarantee that Benjamin, Joseph's younger brother, would be brought to him.
 Simeon and Levi killed the people of Shechem to avenge the rape of their sister Dinah.
 108{Ephraim}
Ephraim was the younger son of Joseph, son of Jacob, and Asenath, daughter of Potiphera (priest of the sun god Re of Heliopolis).
 Before his death, Jacob adopted his grandchildren Ephraim and Manasseh to be equal with his own sons.
 When Jacob blessed Joseph's two sons he placed his right hand on the head of the younger boy, Ephraim, and his left hand on the older boy, Manasseh.
 231{Manasseh}
Manasseh, son of King Hezekiah, and mother Hephzibah, began his reign at age 12.
 He reigned 55 years, the longest of any Hebrew King.
When Manasseh died, he was buried beneath his own palace, and his son Amon became the new king.
 145{Herod the Great}
Herod the Great was the son of Antipater.
 He was the procurator of Judah, under Julius Caesar, and king, under Augustus.
His most magnificent achievement was the reconstruction of the Temple in Jerusalem, which was started in 19 BC.
Shortly after Jesus was born, he was visited by men from the east.
 He sent men to kill all of the babies in Bethlehem.
 185{Jeroboam 1}
Jeroboam 1 was the son of Nebat.
 He became the first king of the northern kingdom of Israel, after Israel had split away from Judah.
 The prophet Ahijah prophesied that upon Solomon's death, he would become king over ten tribes.
Ahijah the prophet told his wife of the oncoming death of their son, and also of a king over Israel who will destroy his family.
 When he died, his son Nadab became king. 
 186{Jeroboam 2}
He was the son of King Joash, and the great grandson of King Jehu.
He was the 13th king of the northern kingdom of Israel.
 When he died, he was buried with the other Kings of Israel, and his son Zechariah became the new king.
 182{Jehu}
Jehu, the son of Jehoshaphat, was the tenth King of the northern kingdom of Israel.
 He killed the king of Israel, Joram, who was the son of Ahab, with an arrow through the heart.
 He  killed the king of Judah, Ahaziah.
 In time, Jehu executed Ahab's entire family, including Jezebel, and fulfilled a prophecy of Elijah.
 When he died, he was buried in Samaria, and his son Jehoahaz became the new king.
 179{Jehoram}
He was the son of Ahab and Jezebel.
 He was the ninth King of the northern kingdom of Israel.
Jehoram succeeded his brother, Ahaziah, and reigned for twelve years.
After he was wounded at Ramoth Gilead, he went to the town of Jezreel to recover.
Jehu killed Jehoram, and became the next King of Israel.
 116{Ezekiel}
 He was the son of Buzi, a Zadokite priest.
He received his call as a prophet during the fifth year of the exile of King Jehoiachin.
Ezekiel's wife died during the day that the Babylonians began their siege of Jerusalem.
The Bible's book of Ezekiel is the third of the four Major Prophets.
 159{Ishmael}
Ishmael was the first son of Abraham.
 His mother was Hagar, who was the Egyptian handmaid to Sarah, who was Abraham's wife.
Hagar gave birth to Ishmael when Abraham was 86 years old.
Sarah noticed that Ishmael teased Isaac, and she told Abraham to send away Hagar and Ishmael.
 Ishmael had twelve sons, and they became the founders of the twelve tribes that bore their names: Nebaioth, Kedar, Abdeel, Mibsam, Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema, Jetur, Naphish and Kedmah.
 3{Abel}
Abel, the second son of Adam and Eve, was murdered by his brother Cain.
The Lord expressed favor toward Abel's offering, but rejected Cain's.
Abel's sacrifice is judged greater than Cain's because of his faith, and this faith speaks beyond the grave.
 66{Cain}
Cain, the eldest son of Adam and Eve, was born after they were banished from the Garden of Eden.
Cain and his brother Abel brought offerings before God.
God put a mark on Cain, so that no one who would come upon him would kill him.
 Cain settled in the land of Nod, east of Eden.
 Cain established a city and named it after his son Enoch.
The famous saying “Am I my brother's keeper?” was said by Cain. 
 311{Rhoda}
Rhoda is a woman who worked as a servant in the home of Mary, the mother of John.
 When she recognized Peter's voice, she was so overjoyed she ran back without opening it and exclaimed, "Peter is at the door!" 
 312{Rizpah}
 She gave birth to two sons with Saul, named Armoni and Mephibosheth.
King David handed Rizpah's sons Armoni and Mephibosheth, along with five of Saul's grandsons, over to the Gibeonites.
 She made sure that birds and wild animals did not eat her dead son’s bodies.  When King David had heard what Rizpah done, he had the bodies of Rizpah's sons, and the other five descendants of Saul who were killed, gathered up and buried.
 19{Adam}
Adam (“Man”), was created by God on the sixth day of creation.
 God gave him dominion over all living things.
 God formed Adam from the dust of the ground and breathed life into him.
God expelled Adam and Eve from Eden.
When Adam sinned, sin entered the entire human race.
 His sin spread death throughout all the world, so everything began to grow old and die, for all sinned.
 115{Eve}
Eve was the first woman, wife of Adam, and the mother of Cain, Abel and Seth, and other sons and daughters.
 Eve was created by God in the Garden of Eden from the rib of Adam.
Eve was persuaded by a serpent to eat fruit from a forbidden tree in the Garden of Eden.
 128{Goliath}
A giant soldier in the Philistine army that challenged the Israeli army under King Saul.
 Goliath's height was listed at six cubits and a span.
 117{Ezra}
Ezra was the leader of a group of Jews returning to Jerusalem from the Babylonian Exile in 458 BC, during the reign of King Artaxerxes.
 112{Esther}
 She was the cousin, and the adopted daughter, of Mordecai.
 On the orders of the Persian King Ahasuerus, Esther replaced Vashti as queen.
 And at Mordecai's request, Esther concealed her Jewish birth.
 She revealed to the king that she was Jewish, and that the Jews were destined to be massacred by orders from Haman.
Esther and Mordecai instituted the annual festival of “Purim,” which means “throwing dice,” taken from the Persian word “Pur”.
 251{Michael}
Michael, the Archangel, is the patron angel of Israel.
 It is Michael who assists another angel who had been sent to Daniel, to respond to Daniel's prayer.
Michael contended with the Devil over Moses' body
 120{Gabriel}
Gabriel is an angel of heaven who appears to the prophet Daniel to interpret a vision.
  Gabriel announces the birth of John the Baptist to Zechariah.
Gabriel told Mary that she had found favor with God, and that she would conceive and bear a son whom she was to give the name of Jesus.
 338{Thaddaeus}
Thaddaeus was one of the 12 Apostles.  It is believed that he was also known as Judas, son of James.
 168{James the Apostle}
 He was the son of a man named of Zebedee and the older brother of John the Apostle.
 Jesus gave John and him the surname of Boanerges, which means “sons of thunder.”
He was killed by King Herod Agrippa.
 169{James the Epistle Writer}
Author of the 20th book of the New Testament.
He was probably “The Lord's Brother”, the leader of the church in Jerusalem.
 He writes that “Faith without works is dead”. 
 100{Elisha}
He was the son of Shaphat and he was a prophet.
He was Elijah's student.
When Elijah was taken up into heaven in a fiery chariot, he picked up Elijah's mantle, struck it on the waters of the Jordan River.
 He brought back to life the dead son of a Shunammite woman.
He cured Naaman a general from Damascus, of leprosy. 
He caused a metal ax head to float on water. 
He caused an attacking Aramean army to go blind and then returned their sight.
 When he was being buried, the body of another man was placed in the same grave. When the dead man's body touched his body, the dead man came to life and stood on his feet.
 76{Cyrus}
Cyrus was a King of Persia, founder of the Achaemenian dynasty and the Persian Empire, he reigned 559-529 BC.
His crowning success was the capture of Babylon.
 He said “the Lord God of heaven … instructed me to build Him a temple in Jerusalem, in the land of Judah.  All among you who are of the Lord's people, return to Israel for this task, and the Lord be with you”.
 127{Gideon}
Gideon was the son of Joash the Abiezrite from the town of Ophrah.
 He was Israel's fifth Judge.
Gideon raised an army of 32,000, but after several tests by the Lord, the army was whittled down to 300 men.
 17{Absalom}
Absalom was the third of David's six sons, and was born in Hebron.
 Absalom was physically striking in appearance and had a gift of charisma.
His sister Tamar was raped by his half brother Amnon.
The two armies of David and Absalom meet in the woods of the territory of Ephraim, and Absalom's newly formed army was defeated.
 Absalom was entrapped when his long hair became entangled in the branches of a terebinth. 
 194{Joab}
 He was the eldest son of David's sister Zeruiah, and the brother of Abishai and Asahel.
 He slew Abner perhaps out of rivalry or to avenge his brother.
 When Absalom revolted against his father, Joab killed him in stark violation of David's command to spare his life.
 Joab slew Amasa, who had been appointed by David to head the campaign against Sheba.
 When Solomon was established on the throne, he ordered the death of Joab, this was in accordance with David's command that Joab, who had shed innocent blood, must not be allowed to go down to the grave in peaceful old age.
 307{Rahab}
Rahab was a prostitute who played a key role in the conquest of Jericho.
For helping the two men escape, Rahab was given the promise that she and her family would be spared when the Israelite army attacked Jericho.
 53{Baruch}
Baruch (“Blessed”) was the son of Neriah and a member of a distinguished family in Judah.
 His brother Seraiah was a high-ranking officer in the court of King Zedekiah.
 Baruch was confidant and secretary of the prophet Jeremiah.
After the murder of Gedaliah the governor of Judah, Baruch accompanied Jeremiah to Egypt.
 242{Melchizedek}
Melchizedek (“Righteous King”), was the King of Salem (Jerusalem), called priest of “God the Most High”.
 After Abraham's victory over Chedorlaomer, Melchizedek greeted him with a gift of bread and wine.
 He blesses Abraham, and Abraham gives him one-tenth of the goods taken from the battle with Chedorlaomer.
 197{Job}
Job was a God-fearing man who avoided evil, had seven sons and three daughters, and was immensely wealthy.
Three friends visit him, Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar, and each try to explain Job's misery in a different way.
Job is mentioned in Ezekiel along with Noah and Daniel as the only ones to be saved by their righteousness.
 48{Balak}
 Balak, son of Zippor, was a king of Moab.
He sent messengers to Balaam to come and put a curse on the Israelites.
 47{Balaam}
Balaam, son of Beor, was a prophet from Penthor, on the Euphrates River. 
God sent an angel to stand in the road to stop him.
 After Balaam beat his donkey, the Lord caused the donkey to speak.
 When Balaam meets Balak, he blesses the Israelites instead of cursing them.
 133{Hagar}
Hagar, an Egyptian, was the servant of Sarah, the wife of Abraham.
 Hagar gave birth to Abraham's first son, Ishmael.
Sarah had Abraham send Hagar and Ishmael away.
 An Angel of God called to Hagar and told her not to be afraid, that God would make a great nation of Ishmael's descendents.
 130{Habakkuk}
 His book is the eighth among the Minor Prophets.
 267{Nebuchadnezzar}
Nebuchadnezzar was the son of Nabopolassar and King of Babylon from 605 to 562 BC.
Nebuchadnezzar put Daniel on his regular staff of advisors.
 Daniel interprets King Nebuchadnezzar's dream of the statue of a man with the head of gold, chest and arms of silver, belly and thighs of brass, and legs of iron.
 King Nebuchadnezzar built a golden statue 90-feet high and 9-feet wide, and had the people worship the statue.
The Lord struck him down to live like an animal in the fields.  At the end of seven years his sanity returned, and he praised and worshiped God.
 65{Caiaphas}
Caiaphas was the high priest during the time of Jesus and was a member of the Sadducees.
After Jesus was arrested, he was taken to Annas, also a high priest, who was also the father-in-law of Caiaphas.
 Caiaphas said that it would better for one man to die than for a whole nation to suffer.
 271{Nicodemus}
 Nicodemus asks Jesus what it means to be “born again.
He cooperates with Joseph of Arimathea in the burial of Jesus.
 86{Dinah}
Dinah was the daughter of Leah and Jacob.
 After Israel and his family traveled to the outskirts of the settlement of Shechem, Dinah was defiled by the son of the man who ruled over the area.
 36{Annas}
Annas was High Priest in Jerusalem about 2000 years ago.  His son-in-law Caiaphas was also high priest.
Jesus was first taken to Annas during the trial, who then sent Jesus to Caiaphas.
 37{Apollos}
Apollos was a Christian Jew from Alexandria, Egypt.
He heard about John the Baptist, and what John said about Jesus, but that was all he knew, until Aquila and his wife Priscilla met him in Ephesus and instructed him in the life of Jesus.
Paul said that neither he, Apollos or Peter died for anyone's sins, and that only Christ can atone for their sins.
 Paul described himself in his teachings as one who planted, and Apollos as one who watered what already had been planted.
 38{Aquila}
Aquila was a Jewish Christian living in Corinth with his wife Priscilla.
 The book of Acts says that he had lived in Rome until the emperor Claudius banned Jews from living in the city.
Aquila and Priscilla moved to Corinth, where Aquila worked as a tent maker.
 52{Bartimaeus}
Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, was a blind beggar who was healed by Jesus Christ.
 304{Priscilla}
Aquila was a Jewish Christian living in Corinth with his wife Priscilla.
 The book of Acts says that she had lived in Rome until the emperor Claudius banned Jews from living in the city.
Aquila and Priscilla moved to Corinth, where Aquila worked as a tent maker.
 134{Haggai}
Haggai's messages were addressed to Zerubbabel the governor, and to Joshua the high priest.
The Bible's book of Haggai is the ordered as the tenth of the books of the twelve minor prophets.
 96{Eliezer}
Eliezer was a son of Moses and Zipporah, and the brother to Gershom.
He was named Eliezer, for his father said, “My father's God was my helper; he saved me from the sword of Pharaoh.
 125{Gershom}
Gershom was a son of Moses and Zipporah, and the brother to Eliezer.
He was named Gershom, for his father said, “I have become an alien in a foreign land”.
 191{Jethro}
Jethro, also known Reuel, was the father-in-law to Moses; father of Zipporah, the wife of Moses; and grandfather to Gershom and Eliezer.
After Moses had left Egypt, but before he returned to emancipate the Hebrew slaves, he lived in Midian where he met Jethro and married his daughter.
 102{Elizabeth}
The mother of John the Baptist, and the wife of Zechariah the priest.
 Elizabeth had been barren for many years, but God performed a miracle and she conceived a child who would be the forerunner of the Messiah.
When Mary entered the house of Zechariah, and greeted Elizabeth, the baby leaped in Elizabeth's womb.
 And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit and exclaimed with a loud cry, “Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb” 
 353{Zerubbabel}
Zerubbabel was the head of the tribe of Judah during the time of the return from the Babylon exile.
 He was the prime builder of the second Temple, which was later re-constructed by King Herod.
 He led the first group of captives back to Jerusalem and began rebuilding the Temple on the old site.
Urged by the prophets Haggai and Zechariah, Zerubbabel resumed work on the Temple in the second year of the reign of Darius Hystaspes of Persia.
Haggai promised Zerubbabel a special blessing: “I will take you, Zerubbabel My servant, the son of Shealtile, says the Lord, and will make you as a signet ring; for I have chosen you”.
 143{Herod Archelaus}
Herod Archelaus was a son of King Herod the Great, a brother to Herod Antipas, and half-brother to Herod Philip.
Matthew mentions Archelaus in connection with Joseph, Mary and Jesus returning from their exile in Egypt.
 188{Jeshua}
Jeshua appears in two of Zechariah's visions (he's called Joshua in Zechariah) his "filthy garments" is symbolic of the peoples sins that had led to the exile, are replaced by "rich apparel" 
 Jeshua, along with Zerubbabel, and the rest of the family heads of Israel told the Samaritans (who wanted to interfere with the rebuilding of the Temple) "It is not your responsibilty to build with us a house for our God, but we alone must build it for the Lord, the God of Israel, as King Cyrus of Persia has commanded us.”
 15{Abner}
The commander in chief of the army of Saul.
He was the person who inquired about David after his battle with the giant, Goliath, and who introduced David to King Saul.
After the death of Saul and his three sons in a battle with the Philistines, Abner established Saul's son Ishbosheth as King.
Abner killed Asahel, a brother of Joab. 
Abner was killed by David's commander Joab in an act of vengeance over the death of his brother.
 158{Ishbosheth}
A son of Saul who Abner proclaimed king after Saul's death.
Ishbosheth reigned two turbulent years from Mahanaim, east of the Jordan River, while David ruled Judah from Hebron.
Two captains of his guard, Baanah and Rechab, assassinated Ishbosheth as he lay napping.
 150{Hosea}
 His father's name was Beeri.
 Hosea's wife had left home for a life of prostitution, and Israel had turned away from God and pursued false gods. But Hosea continued to love his wife, and finally brought her home again, so God would also continue to love Israel and one day again restore favor to Israel.
 His book is the first of the Minor Prophets and the longest.
 42{Asaph}
Asaph, a Levite, was the son of Berachiah the Gershonite 
 Asaph sounded symbols before the Ark of the Covenant when it was moved from the house of Obed-Edom to Jerusalem 
 Twelve Psalms are attributed to the family of Asaph.
 26{Ahijah}
Ahijah was a prophet from Shiloh.
He is best known for his prophecy about Israel's division into two kingdoms, as described in 1 Kings.
Ahijah's prophecy involves the symbolism of him tearing up his own garment into 12 pieces and handing 10 of the pieces to Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who rebelled against King Solomon.
 136{Haman}
Haman was the prime minister of Ahasuerus (Xerxes 1), King of Persia (485-464 BC).
 Haman was hanged on the very gallows that he had constructed for Mordecai 
 4{Abiathar}
Abiathar was the son of Ahimelech of the priestly clan of Eli from Shiloh.
 When the residents of the priestly village of Nob were massacred by King Saul for helping David, Abiathar was the only one to escape.
When David eventually became king, he appointed Abiathar, along with Zardok, as priests of the royal court.
Abiathar and Zardok carried the Ark of the Covenant out of the capitol city, when David was forced to leave Jerusalem, because of Absalom's rebellion - but later returned it.
After Absalom's death, Abiathar and Zardok carried the message of reconciliation to Amasa and the elders of Judah.
During the struggle over who would succeed David as king, Abiathar supported Adonijah.
Abiathar and his family were banished to Anathoth, and his rights and privileges as a Jerusalem priest were taken away.
 5{Abigail}
Abigail had been the wife of Nabal the Calebite, a wealthy man who was surly in his dealings with other people.
 When Abigail found out that her husband refused David, she rounded up a large quantity of bread, figs, wine and other supplies and brought them to David and his men.
 259{Nabal}
A wealthy sheep master of Maon and a member of the house of Caleb.
 When David was hiding from Saul, he sent ten men to Nabal to ask for food for himself and his followers.
Nabal's wife Abigail realizing the danger threatening her family because of her husband's stupidity, made haste and took two hundred loaves of bread and other food to David. 
 When Abigail told Nabal of the destruction and death that he almost brought upon his household - Immediately, Nabal's "heart died within him, and he became like a stone".
 10{Abinadab}
Abinadab was an Israelite of the tribe of Judah in whose house the Ark of the Covenant was placed after being returned by the Philistines.
 9{Abimelech, the king}
Abimelech, the king, ruled over the land of Gerar during the time of Abraham.
Abraham asked God to reward the king by giving him many children.
 12{Abishag}
Abishag was a young woman from Shunem who was employed by David's physicians to care for him in his old age.
 7{Abijah, King of Judah}
Abijah was the second King of Judah (911-908 BC).
 He was the son of King Rehoboam and Maacah, the grand-daughter of Absalom.
 “ God used Abijah and the men of Judah to turn the tide of the battle against King Jeroboam and the army of Israel, defeating Israel and capturing the cities of Bethel, Jeshanah, and Ephron.
 When Abijah died, he was buried in Jerusalem, and his son, Asa, became the new king of Judah.
 156{Isaac}
Isaac, the second patriarch of Israel, son of Abraham and Sarah, and father of Jacob and Esau.
 Isaac was born to Abraham and Sarah in their old age, his name means “to laugh.
An angel stopped Abraham from slaying Isaac, and offered a ram as a substitute.
 Abraham sent a slave to his family in Mesopotamia to procure a wife for Isaac.
Isaac was forty years old at the time of his marriage to Rebekah, and she eventually bore him twins, Esau and Jacob.
 In his old age, Isaac grew blind, and through a ruse by Rebekah and Jacob, gave his blessing to Jacob instead of Esau.
 30{Amasa}
Amasa was David's nephew, the son of Abigail, who was David's sister 
Absalom appointed Amasa as commander of his rebel army, when he rebelled against David.
Amasa was the one who convinced all the leaders of Judah to take back David as their king after the revolt of Absalom.
 39{Artaxerxes}
Artaxerxes was the King of Persia during the time of Nehemiah and Ezra.
 During his reign, he halted the rebuilding of the Temple area that his predecessor Cyrus had allowed.
 During the seventh year of his reign, he allowed Ezra and a large number of Israelites to return to Jerusalem.
 During the twentieth year of his reign he allowed Nehemiah to return to Jerusalem, and to rebuild the city walls 
 54{Barzillai}
He was a friend to David, and brought him food for his army at Mahanaim.
 62{Bezalel}
Bezalel, son of Uri, son of Hur, along with Oholiab, was appointed by God to build the Tabernacle in the desert, during the time of Moses.
 He built the Ark, the two Cherubim, and all the accessories for transporting the Arc, and overlaid everything with gold.
 279{Oholiab}
Oholiab was from the tribe of Dan.  He and Bezalel built the Tabernacle in the desert, during the time of Moses, when the Israelites wandered in the Sinai.
 57{Belshazzar}
Belshazzar was the king of Babylon during the time of Daniel.  One night he hosted a drunken party involving a thousand of his officers.
Daniel told this king that he had offended God by drinking out of the Temple cups.
Belshazzar, the Chaldean king, was killed, and Darius the Mede entered the city and began his reign.
 58{Benaiah}
 Adonijah, another son of David tried to take the throne and prevent Solomon from becoming king.  With Benaiah's help, Solomon was anointed king.
 Benaiah then carried out Solomon's orders and executed Adonijah, who had tried to seize the throne.
Benaiah was noted for killing a lion, as well as some warriors from Moab, and a giant of a man from Egypt.
 41{Asahel}
Asahel was a son of Zeruiah, who was King David's sister, and the brother of Joab and Abishai.
 When Asahel pursued Abner in battle, Abner killed him with his spear.
 354{Zeruiah}
Zeruiah was a sister of King David.  Her three sons, Abishai, Joab, and Asahel, were commanders in David's army.
 157{Isaiah}
Isaiah, the son of Amoz, was married and had two children.  He was called in the year King Uzziah died (740 BC).
The grim lesson taught by Israel's fall was not lost on Isaiah, and he used it to encourage Hezekiah to trust in the Lord.
Isaiah made that famous prediction that a nation would be born in a single day, even before the birth pains come.
Isaiah's book is the first of the Major Prophets, and the longest of all the Prophets.
 13{Abishai}
Abishai was the eldest son of Zeruiah, who was King David's sister.
He was the brother of Joab and Asahel.
 He helped David in the fight with Ishbi-Benob, the giant.
 256{Mordecai}
 When Mordecai's uncle, Abihail, died, Mordecai took his orphaned cousin, Esther, into his home as her adoptive father.
 After Esther became Ahasuerus' queen, Mordecai discovered a plot to assassinate King Ahasuerus, and exposed it, saving the king's life.
 Mordecai encouraged his cousin, Queen Esther, to go to the king and save her people.
Haman was succeeded by Mordecai, who now was second-in-command to the king.
 22{Ahasuerus}
Ahasuerus (Xerxes) was a king of Persia and the husband of Esther.
Ahasuerus banished his queen, Vashti, and then later chose Esther to be his queen.
 29{Ahithophel}
 He advised Absalom to take David's harem.
Ahithophel advised Absalom to pursue David, who fled Jerusalem.
 Sensing that Absalom's rebellion was doomed, Ahithophel put his household in order and hanged himself. 
 153{Hushai}
 Absalom took his advice over the advice from another counselor, Ahithophel, and this led to the defeat of Absalom's army.
 63{Bildad}
 He was called Bildad the Shuhite, and was one of the so-called comforters of Job, after Job's horrible sufferings.
After Job was restored by God, Bildad and his friends Eliphaz and Zophar, were instructed by God to apologize to Job, and sacrifice seven bulls and seven rams in atonement.
 99{Eliphaz}
Eliphaz was the oldest of Job’s three friends and was a very religious man.
Eliphaz, Bildad and Zophar were instructed by God to sacrifice seven bulls and seven rams in atonement for the way they acted towards Job.
 164{Jacob}
Jacob was the son of Isaac and Rebekah, and the twin brother of Esau.
 He eventually received his father's blessing that was meant for Esau.
 Cheated by his brother, Esau vowed to kill Jacob.
 Jacob left his home and went to the town of Padan Aram, where his uncle, Laban, lived.
After working seven years as a herdsman for his uncle Laban, Jacob wanted to marry Laban's youngest daughter Rachel.
Laban deceived Jacob by giving him his eldest daughter, Leah, in marriage.
Jacob consented to work another seven years for the permission to marry Rachel.
Jacob wrestled with an angel, asking for a blessing.
 Rachel died in childbirth of Jacob's last son, Benjamin.
 The 12 sons of Jacob (Israel) became the twelve tribes of Israel.
 97{Elihu}
 Elihu the Buzite, a young man, speaks up when his three friends failed to give convincing answers to Job's questions.
 It was after Elihu's speeches that God answers Job, and tells Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar, to offer a burnt offering for themselves and Job.
 219{Laban}
Laban was an uncle of Jacob, who also became Jacob's father-in-law.
 Abraham sent his servant to Laban to arrange the marriage of Isaac to Rebekah.
 Years later, Jacob, fearing retaliation from his brother Esau from tricking him out of his birthright, fled to his uncle Laban.
Jacob wed Laban's two daughters, Leah and Rachel, but had to work for Laban for 14 years in return.
 Laban was deceitful to his son-in-law but was later outwitted by Jacob.
 72{Cleopas}
Cleopas is one of the two disciples who talked with Jesus on the Road to Emmaus, after Jesus' resurrection.
 144{Herod Philip}
Herod Philip, also known as Philip the tetrarch, was son of Herod the Great and his fifth wife Cleopatra of Jerusalem.
Herod Philip was the tetrarch of Iturea and Traconitis.
 337{Terah}
Terah is best known for being the father of Abraham.
 Terah remained in Haran when Abraham continued on to the land of Canaan, which later became known as Israel.
 146{Herodias}
The marriage that John the Baptist criticized was the union between Herodias and Herod Antipas, who was tetrarch of Galilee and Peraea.
Herodias had a daughter named Salome.
 61{Bernice}
Bernice was the oldest daughter of Herod Agrippa 1, who ruled Palestine A.D. 37-44.  She lived with Herod Agrippa 2.  That's when Paul made his defense before him.
 64{Bilhah}
Bilhah was a maidservant to Rachel, who was one of Jacob's wives.
 Bilhah bore two sons to Jacob, Dan and Naphtali.
 Jacob's oldest son, Reuben, committed adultery with Bilhah.
 68{Canaan}
Canaan received the curse from Noah "a slave of slaves shall he be to his brothers" when his father, Ham, humiliated his own father, Noah.
 69{Candace}
Candace was a queen of Ethiopia.
 The eunuch of the Candace in Acts was converted to Christianity by Philip the evangelist.
 70{Chedorlaomer}
 Chedorlaomer joined up with three other kings, Tidal king of Goiim, Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar.
 Abraham (called Abram at the time) mustered up an army of 318 men, pursued Chedorlaomer as far as Dan, defeated Chedorlaomer and the other kings, and rescued Lot and all the captives.
 71{Claudius}
Claudius was the fourth emperor of Rome.
 He commanded all the Jews to leave Rome.
 73{Cornelius}
Cornelius was a Roman centurion stationed in Caesarea, and apparently the first Gentile to convert to Christianity.
 Peter, obeying a vision, traveled to Caesaerea to meet Cornelius.
While Peter was preaching to Cornelius "the Holy Spirit fell upon all who were listening to the Word" and they started "speaking in tongues and glorifying God.
 74{Crispus}
Crispus was a ruler of the Jewish synagogue at Corinth (Greece).
 75{Cush}
Cush was a son of Ham, and a grandson of Noah.
 Cush became the father of the famous Nimrod.
 83{Delilah}
 She was paid by the Philistines to find out the source of Samson's great strength.
 Three times Samson gave her a false clue, but he finally told her, the secret of his strength was his hair.
  Delilah arranged to cut Samson's hair while he slept.
Delilah was rewarded with 1,100 pieces of silver from each of the Philistine lords for Samson's capture.
 78{Darius I}
 The Jews resumed the work of restoring the Temple in Jerusalem, in his second year as king. 
 79{Darius the Mede}
 He was the one who made Daniel a governor.
 He had Daniel thrown into the lion’s den, but later decreed that everybody in his kingdom "must tremble and fear before the God of Daniel" 
 80{Dathan}
 Along with his brother Abiram, and Korah, he led a revolt against Moses and Aaron 
 218{Korah}
A member of the Levite tribe, who along with the brothers Dathan and Abiram of the tribe of Reuben, led a revolt against Moses and Aaron.
 82{Debir}
A king of Eglon, he was one of five Amorite kings who was defeated by Joshua during the invasion of Canaan.
 11{Abiram}
He with his brother Dathan, and Korah, led a revolt against Moses and Aaron in the desert.
 50{Barak}
Deborah called upon the warrior, Barak, and through a message from God told him to mobilize 10,000 men.
Barak agrees to go to battle, but only if Deborah comes with him.
Deborah accompanies the army, but warns Barak that the honor of conquering Sisera (King Jabin's general) will go to a woman instead of him.
Barak, whose name means “lightning” was born in Kadesh-Naphtali to Abinoam of the tribe of Naphtali.
 85{Demetrius}
Demetrius was a silversmith at Ephesus.
 He made and sold silver shrines of Artemis (the goddess Diana).
 84{Demas}
 Paul writes "Do your best to come to me quickly, for Demas, because he loved this world, has deserted me and has gone to Thessalonica" 
 87{Doeg}
Doeg the Edomite, was one of King Saul's chief henchmen.
 David, on the run from Saul, went to Ahimelech, the priest of Nob, who gave David the holy bread for food.  Doeg was in the area that day and saw David and later reported this to Saul.
Saul commanded Doeg to kill the priests.
 Doeg went from one to the next and killed the priests himself, slaying on that day eighty-five who wore the linen ephod.
 88{Dorcas}
Dorcas, also known as Tabitha, was a Christian woman from Joppa.
Peter prayed over her, and then said "Tabitha, rise up.  She opened her eyes, saw Peter and sat up.
 89{Drusilla}
Drusilla was the youngest daughter of Herod Agrippa I by his wife Cypros.
 Drusilla became the wife of Felix, the governor of Judea.
 27{Ahimelech}
 David fleeing from King Saul, who was trying to kill him, requested bread and a weapon from Ahimelech.
 Ahimelech gave David the holy bread from the sanctuary along with the sword of Goliath that was hidden there.
 90{Ebed-Melek}
 When the princes of the king had the prophet Jeremiah thrown into a cistern, Ebed-Melek learned of it, and went to the king to plead for Jeremiah's life.
 The king ordered Ebed-Melek to take 30 men with him and draw the prophet out of the cistern before he should die.
Ebed-Melek lowered some old tattered rags and rope down to Jeremiah in the cistern, and told him "put the old tattered rags between your armpits and the ropes.
 285{Othniel}
" Othniel was from the tribe of Judah, and was the son of Kenaz, and younger brother of Caleb.
Othniel was the first of the Judges.
Responding to his uncle Caleb's challenge, Othniel captured Debir and restored it to the Israelites.
 93{Ehud}
Ehud was the second Judge of Israel.
 He gave the tribute to Eglon, and then told Eglon that he had a message from God for him.
 Ehud drew a dagger from his right thigh with his left hand, and thrust it into Eglon's belly.
 323{Shamgar}
The third Judge of Israel.
 Shamgar slew 600 Philistines with an oxgoad, and rescued Israel.
 343{Tola}
After the death of Abimelech there rose to save Israel the Issacharite Tola, son of Puah, son of Dodo, a resident of Shamir in the mountain region of Ephraim.
 He was the seventh Judge of Israel.
 166{Jair}
Jair the Gileadite came after Tola and judged Israel twenty-two years.
 He had thirty sons who rode on thirty saddle-asses and possessed thirty cities in the land of Gilead. 
 155{Ibzan}
Ibzan was the tenth Judge of Israel.
 After Jephthah, Ibzan of Bethlehem judged Israel.
After having judged Israel for seven years, Ibzan died and was buried in Bethlehem.
 180{Jehoshaphat}
The son of King Asa and Azubah, he became the fourth King of Judah (873-849 BC) at the age of 35, and reigned for 25 years.
He made a marriage alliance for his son, with the daughter of King Ahab of Israel.
He went to Samaria and allied himself with king Ahab of Israel, at Ahab's request, to fight the armies of Syria.
 King Ahab was killed by a stray arrow during the battle and Jehoshaphat returned to Judah.
When Jehoshaphat died, he was buried in Jerusalem, and his son Jehoram became the new ruler of Judah.
 103{Elon}
Elon was the eleventh Judge of Israel.
After Ibzan the Zebulunite Elon judged Israel.
 When he had judged Israel for ten years, the Zebulunite Elon died and was buried in Elon in the land of Zubulun.
 2{Abdon}
Abdon was the twelfth Judge of Israel.
After Elon the Pirathonite Abdon, son of Hillel, judged Israel.
After having judged Israel for eight years, the Pirathonite Abdon, son of Hillel, died and was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim on the mountain of the Amalekites.
 92{Eglon}
 It was by Ehud the Israelites sent their tribute to Eglon.
Ehud hid a dagger under his clothes on his visit to king Eglon, and during a private audience with Eglon, Ehud drew the dagger and killed the king.
 8{Abimelech, son of Gideon}
Abimelech (Abimelek), the judge, was the son of Gideon and became a Judge of Israel, but it was not by God's will.
With a great desire to lead Israel, and with the help of his mother's clan in Shechem, he assassinated all his brothers but one.  Only his youngest brother, Jotham, escaped.
 The people of Shechem got tired of their king once he moved his residence south to Arumah, and they turned to Gaal son of Ebed, who stirred up a rebellion against Abimelech.
 94{Eleazar}
Eleazar was Aaron's third son by his wife Elisheba.
He married a daughter of Putiel who bore him a son, Phinehas.
When Aaron died at Mount Hor, Eleazar became the high priest.
 Before Moses died, the Lord instructed Moses to appoint Joshua as his successor, and to "stand before Eleazar the priest and all the congregation" 
 Phinehas succeeded him as high priest.
 In King David's day, 16 of the 24 priestly houses were descended from Eleazar, including the family of the high priest Zadok.
 98{Elimelech}
Elimelech was a native of Bethlehem in Judah.  He was the husband of Naomi, and the father-in-law of Ruth.
He moved his family to Moab to escape the famine.
 His two sons married Moabite women, Orpah and Ruth.
 After the death of Elimelech and his two sons, Ruth chose to return to Bethlehem with Naomi.
Ruth later married Boaz, a kinsman of Elimelech, who purchased Elimelech's land, and ensured that the estate would remain in the family.
 104{Enoch}
 Enoch, the son of Jared, was the father of Methuselah.
 Enoch walked with God, and he was no longer here, for God took him".
"Enoch was taken up so that he should not see death" because his faith was pleasing to God.
 105{Epaphras}
 When Paul was a prisoner of Rome, Epaphras came to him with a favorable account of the church at Colossae.
 He stayed with Paul in Rome, and was, in a sense, his "fellow prisoner" 
 106{Epaphroditus}
Epaphroditus was a messenger sent by the church at Philippi with a gift for the apostle Paul, who was under house arrest in Rome.
 While in Rome Epaphroditus became ill and word of his sickness spread to Philippi.
 As soon as Epaphroditus was well enough, Paul sent him back home to relieve the church's anxiety and to deliver Paul’s letter to the Philippians.
 184{Jeremiah}
 He was the son of Hilkiah and lived in the town of Anathoth in the land of Benjamin in Judah.
Jeremiah, according to the Bible book that bears his name, preached from about 628 BC to 586 BC in Jerusalem.
 He chose to stay in Judah, but was compelled later to flee to Egypt after a group of fanatics killed the Babylonian who had been appointed governor of Judah.
The book of Jeremiah is the second of the four Major Prophets.
 110{Ephron}
Ephron was a Hittite from whom Abraham purchased a field containing the cave of Machpelah.
When Abraham asked to buy the cave that belonged to Ephron, Ephron offered the cave as a gift.
 6{Abihu}
Abihu was the second son of Aaron.
 He was consecrated a priest along with his brothers Nadab, Eleazar, and Ithamar to minister at the Tabernacle. 
 Abihu and Nadab were guilty of offering "profane fire before the Lord, such as He had not authorized.
Abihu and Nadab died when "Fire came forth from the Lord's presence and consumed them”.
 161{Ithamar}
Ithamar was the youngest of the four sons of Aaron.
 He was consecrated as a priest along with his father and three brothers - Nadab, Abihu and Eleazar.
 His job was to number the articles collected for the Tabernacle and to supervise two priestly families, the Gershonites and the Merarites.
 298{Phinehas, son of Eleazar}
He was the son of Eleazar and the grandson of Aaron.
 During the desert wandering, he killed Zimri, an Israelite, and Cozri, a Midianite woman, whom Zimri had brought into the camp.
He became the third high priest of Israel, serving for 19 years.
 299{Phinehas, son of Eli}
 He and his brother Hophni were priests but were a disgrace to their priestly office.
He and his brother Hophni gorged themselves on meat brought to the altar for sacrifice and they treated the offering with contempt.
He and his brother Hophni did not listen to their father, Eli's rebuke, and were eventually killed carrying the Ark of the Covenant in a battle against the Philistines.
Eli died when he heard of the death of him and his brother Hophni.
 209{Jotham, son of Gideon}
 He was the youngest son of Gideon, who was a judge of Israel.
 His brother, Abimelech, tried to seize power by killing all of his own brothers.
He pronounced judgment on Abimelech and the Shechemites by telling a parable of the trees, while standing on Mount Gerizim. 
 208{Jotham, King of Judah}
He was King of Judah and son of Uzziah.
 His mother was Jerusha, who was the daughter of Zadok.
When he died, he was buried in Jerusalem, and his son, Ahaz, became the new king.
 118{Felix}
Felix was named procurator (governor) of Judea by Claudius in A.D. 52.
The case against Paul was managed by Tertullus, who accused Paul of committing rebellion against the Romans, among other things.  Paul refuted each of the charges, and Felix postponed his judgement.
 Felix kept Paul in suspense about his judgment because he hoped Paul would give him a bribe.
Paul was left in prison when Felix left, and Festus became the new procurator.
 119{Festus}
Festus was the successor of Felix as Roman procurator (governor) of Judea.
 190{Jesus}
 He was born of the Holy Spirit and of the virgin Mary.
 He was God living among us as a person.
 He was fully man and fully God.
  After being crucified by the Romans, he died and was buried.  He was resurrected, meaning he rose to life again.
 122{Gad, the prophet}
He told David to leave his place of safety in Moab and return to Judah, where the insanely jealous King Saul awaited him.
 After David had a census taken of Israel, he gave David a choice of punishments from the Lord for carrying out that rash act.
 121{Gad, son of Jacob} 
 He was the seventh son of Jacob.
 In the blessing of Jacob it is said of him, “A troop shall tramp upon him, but he shall triumph at last.”
 123{Gamaliel}
Gamaliel was a teacher of the law and a high ranking member of the Sanhedrin. He advised the Sanhedrin against persecuting the disciples of Jesus. 
 129{Gomer}
She was the prostitute who became the wife of Hosea the prophet.
 Gomer left Hosea, but at God's command, Hosea brought her back.
 131{Hadad}
When King David's army defeated the Edomites, Hadad, a prince of Edom, escaped to Egypt.
 132{Hadadezer}
Hadadezer, the the son of Rehob, was the king of Zobah, which in ancient times was the name of an area north of the city of Damascus, Syria.
 David defeated him at the Euphrates River and captured 1,700 of his horsemen and 20,000 foot soldiers.
 138{Hannah}
Hannah was the wife of Elkanah, a Levite of the Kohathite branch.
 She could not bear children, and was being mocked for this by Elkanah's other wife, Peninnah, who bore several children.
 On a pilgrimage to the Temple in Shiloh, she made a vow to God that if He granted her a son, she would dedicate him to the Lord for life.
 Eli, the priest at Shiloh, saw Hannah's lips moving in silent prayer, and thought she was drunk.
The lord answered her prayers, and she gave birth to the prophet Samuel.
 Hannah kept her promise, and after Samuel was weaned, she left him with Eli.
 Each year thereafter Hannah visited Samuel, gave him a robe and offered a sacrifice at the temple.
 139{Hanun}
Hanun took over the throne of Ammon after the death of his father, Nahash.
 Hanun seized David's servants, shaved off half their beards, and cut away the lower halves of their garments, and then sent them away in shame.  When David heard this, he declared war on the Ammorites, and defeated them. 
 140{Hazael}
 God ordered Elijah the prophet to anoint him when the Syrian king Ben-Hadad was ill.
 After Hazael found out he was to be the next king he assassinated Ben-Hadad and took over the throne.
 Hazael defeated King Jehoram of Israel and King Ahaziah of Judah at the battle of Ramoth-gilead.
He decided to attack Jerusalem, but King Jehoash of Judah took all the dedicated offerings and gold that was in the temple treasury, and sent them to Hazael, as a bribe, who then led his army away from Jerusalem. 
 148{Hiram}
The ruler of the port city of Tyre, and a good friend of both King David and King Solomon.
 Hiram furnished cedar wood, as well as carpenters and masons who built a palace for David.
Hiram sent Solomon "a great quanity of wood", "and a craftsman of great skill" by the name of Huramabi, who knew "how to work with gold, silver, bronze and iron, with stone and wood, with purple, violet, fine linen and crimson.
Solomon gave Hiram 20 cities in exchange for 120 talents of gold.
 152{Huldah}
She was a prophetess and the wife of Shallum, King Josiah's wardrobe keeper.
 She held such great esteem, that King Josiah sought her advice when the book of the Law was found in the Temple.
 154{Hymenaeus}
Some by rejecting conscience, have made a shipwreck of their faith, among them Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan to be taught not to blaspheme.
 Among them are Hymenaeus and Philetus, who have deviated from the truth by saying that the resurrection had already taken place and are upsetting the faith of some.
 163{Jabin}
 When he heard of the Israelite victories under Joshua in southern Canaan, Jabin mustered a large army to fight the invaders "they came out with all their troops, an army numerous as the sands of the seashore, and with a multitude of horses and chariots".
 165{Jael}
Jael is the woman who killed Sisera.
 She was the wife of Heber the Kenite.
Sisera fled on foot to the tent of Jael.
 Jael told Sisera 'come in my lord, come in with me; do not be afraid.
While Sisera was sound asleep, she stealthily approached him and drove the peg through his head down into the ground, so that he perished in death.
In the song of Deborah, Jael is celebrated "Blessed among women".
 167{Jairus}
Jairus was a synagogue official, and the father of a girl who was raised from the dead by Jesus.
Before Jesus got to Jarius' house, a messenger came from Jarius' house to say that his daughter had died, there was no longer any reason to bother Jesus.
 16{Abraham}
 He was the son of Terah, and brother to Nahor and Haran.
 The name Abraham means “a father of many nations.
He originally lived near the Mesopotamian city of Ur, but Terah took him, along with Lot, to the city of Haran in northwest Mesopotamia.
After the death of his father, God told Abraham, who was 75 years old at that time, to leave his country and to go to the land of Canaan, with his wife, Sarah, and his nephew, Lot.
Upon his triumphant return, Abraham was greeted by Melchizedek, the king of Salem and “Priest of the God of the Most High”.
When Sarah could not conceive she gave Abraham her maid, Hagar, as a wife.
Three angels visited Abraham and Sarah and announced that within a year Sarah would give birth.
Sarah gave birth to Isaac when Abraham was 100 years old.
 After Sarah's death and Isaacs marriage to Rebekah, Abraham married Keturah, and she bore him several children.
 Abraham died at the age of 175 and was buried by Isaac and Ishmael in a cave of Machpelah.
 199{John the Apostle}
 He and his brother James and their father Zebedee were Galilean fisherman.
 He along with Andrew had been disciples of John the Baptist and became followers of Jesus after He was baptized by John the Baptist.
He was the “beloved disciple” who leaned on Jesus during the Last Supper.
He was entrusted by Jesus with the care of His mother Mary. 
He outran Peter to the empty tomb.
He wrote the Book of Revelation, which is the 27th book of the New Testament.
He and his brother James were called the “Sons of thunder” by Jesus.
 200{John the Baptist}
 He was born to the elderly Zechariah and his barren wife Elizabeth (similar to Abraham and Sarah).
He baptized Jesus, and proclaimed Him the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world.
He was beheaded AD 29 by Herod Antipas who imprisoned him in revenge for his condemnation of his incestuous marriage to his brother's wife. 
 On the advice of her mother, Salome requested his head on a platter.
 Herod was grieved at being requested to execute him, but having given his oath before witnesses, he commanded that it be done.
 171{Jason}
 Thessalonians dragged Jason and some of the brothers before the city magistrates, shouting, 'These people who have been creating a disturbance all over the world have now come here, and Jason has welcomed them.
 177{Jehoiada}
 Ahaziah's sister Jehosheba hid the king’s infant son Joash, and gave him to the care of her husband, a priest Jehoiada.
Joash was hidden for six years before Jehoiada gathered up an armed guard, had the wicked Athaliah killed and publicly crowned Joash as the rightful king of Judah.
While Jehoiada was alive, Joash "did what was right in the eyes of the Lord all the days of Jehoiada the priest"
 181{Jehosheba}
When the wicked Queen of Judah, Athaliah, ordered a massacre of the royal family, Jehosheba rescued her nephew Joash from certain death.
 126{Gershon}
 He's the oldest of Levi's three sons.
 124{Gehazi}
Gehazi was a servant of the prophet Elisha.
 When Elisha asked Gehazi how he could reward the Shunammite woman who had welcomed him into her home, Gehazi suggested that the childless woman and her husband be given a child.
 Elisha sent Gehazi to lay his staff upon a corpse in an attempt to perform a miracle and bring the boy back to life.
 Elisha refused payment from Naaman for the healing, but Gehazi ran after Naaman to get some money for himself.
 Gehazi lied to Naaman by saying Elisha had sent him to get a talent of silver.
 Because of his greed and lying, Elisha cursed Gehazi with the same disease from which Naaman had been cured.
 193{Jezreel}
At God's command, the prophet Hosea named his first son Jezreel.
 189{Jesse}
Jesse was the father of King David.
 He was told by Samuel that the Lord is naming one of his sons to be the successor of King Saul.
 Samuel asked Jesse to present his seven sons to him.
 Jesse gave his permission for David to play soothing music on the harp for Saul, when saul was suffering from mental illness.
 Jesse sent David to "see how your brothers are doing" in Saul's army, fighting the Philistines.
 Biblical prophecies such as "there shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse" refers to the coming of the Messiah.
 195{Joanna}
 She was the wife of Chuza, the steward of Herod Antipas, and with many others, provided for Jesus and the disciples with their own resources.
 She witnessed the empty tomb with Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and announced Christ's resurrection to the apostles.
 198{Jochebed}
She was a descendant of Levi and the mother of Moses, Aaron, and Miriam.
 When the Pharaoh ordered all the male Hebrew children killed because of the great increase in their population, Jochebed hid Moses until he was three months old.
She put Moses in "a papyrus basket for him and coated it with tar and pitch.  Then she placed the child in it and put it among the reeds along the bank of the Nile.”
When the Pharoah's daughter discovered the basket, Miriam (Jochebed's daughter) came forth and offered to find a Hebrew woman to nurse Moses.
 202{Jonathan}
A good friend to King David, and the oldest son of King Saul.
In the famous battle of Michmash, Jonathan and his armor bearer attacked the Philistine garrison and killed about twenty men.
 Because of David's great friendship with Jonathan, he later took in Jonathan's son, Mephibosheth, and treated him kindly.
 212{Julius}
A Roman Centurion who was assigned to escort Paul and some other prisoners on the voyage from Caesarea to Rome.
 When a storm wrecked Paul’s ship off the island of Malta, Julius dissuaded the soldiers from killing the prisoners, lest they escape.
 214{Keturah}
She became Abraham's wife after Sarah died.
She is described as Abrahams concubine, and gave Abraham six sons, Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah.
 216{Kish}
Kish was the father of King Saul.
 He sent Saul on a mission to find some strayed donkeys.
 217{Kohath}
He was the grandfather of Aaron and Moses, and one of the three sons of Levi.
 220{Lamech}
 Lamech was the son of Methuselah and the father of Noah.
 On the birth of Noah, Lamech said "Out of the very ground that the Lord has put under a curse, this one shall bring us relief from our work and the toil of our hands".
 224{Lot}
He was the nephew of Abraham.
 After his father, Haran, died in Ur, he traveled with his grandfather Terah, and his uncle Abraham, to Canaan.
 Abraham gave Lot his choice of land and Lot picked the Jordan River Valley.
 When the Elamite king Chedorlaomer invaded Canaan, Lot was taken prisoner.
 Abraham mustered up an army of 318 men, attacked and routed the invaders, and rescued his nephew Lot.
Two angels were sent to Sodom to save Lot and his family before the destruction of the city.
 Two angels struck Sodomites blind, and got Lot, his wife and two daughters out of the city.
 226{Lydia}
Lydia was the first person in Europe to convert to Christianity.
While Paul was evangelizing women gathered at a riverbank, one of those listening was a woman named Lydia, a dealer in purple cloth from the city of Thyatira, who was a worshiper of God.
Lydia was a prosperous businesswoman who dealt in purple cloth.  She showed hospitality to Paul, inviting him into her home for a meal.
 201{Jonah}
Jonah, the son of Amittai, was called by God to preach repentance to Assyria, of which the capital city was Nineveh.
Jonah was thrown overboard and swallowed by a great fish.
Finally, Jonah obeyed God's command and went to Nineveh to preach.
 227{Maakah}
 She was a wife of Rehoboam, the mother of King Abijah, and the grandmother of King Asa.
King Rehoboam had 18 wives and 60 concubines and he favored Maakah.
She  wielded great influence in Judah during her life until her grandson, King Asa, deposed her from her position of queen mother, because she engaged in idolatry, 1 Kings 15:13.
 228{Machir}
Machir was the first born son of Manasseh and the grandson of Joseph.
 230{Malchus}
 Simon Peter drew his sword and struck at Malchus, cutting off his right ear.
 Jesus healed Malchus' ear after it had been cut off.
 232{Manoah}
Manoah was the father of Samson, and a member of the tribe of Dan.
 Manoah and his wife tried to persuade Samson not to marry a Philistine woman, but Samson was too determined to do so.
 Manoah and his wife accompanied Samson to Timnah where his wedding took place.
 244{Merab}
Merab was the oldest daughter of King Saul.
 Saul had offered to give her to any man who would kill Goliath.
 But when David killed Goliath, Saul changed his mind, and David ended up marrying Michal, Saul's younger daughter.
 Saul gave Merab to a man named Adriel, and she bore him five sons.
 245{Merari}
Merari was the third son of Levi.
 He was the father of Mahli and Mushi.
 246{Mesha}
Mesha was a king of Moab, and paid an annual tribute of 100,000 lambs and the wool from 100,000 rams to King Ahab of Israel.
 But after King Ahab's death, Mesha rebelled and refused to pay the tribute.
 King Jehoshaphat of Judah, fought Mesha, who led the Moabites, Ammonites and Edomites in an invasion of Judah.
When Jehoram became King of Israel, he and King Jehoshaphat
 marched around the southern end of the Dead Sea to attack Mesha, and ran out of water.
 248{Methuselah}
Methuselah was the son of Enoch and the grandfather of Noah.
 He became the father of Lamech at the age of 187, and then lived another 782 years.
He lived to the age of 969 years making him the longest lived person in the Bible.
 250{Micaiah}
Micaiah was the prophet who predicted the death of King Ahab of Israel in the battle at Ramoth Gilead, against the Syrians. 
 Ahab did not like Micaiah "because he does not prophesy good concerning me, but evil".
 When asking Micaiah, he stated "I see all Israel scattered on the mountains as sheep that have no shepherd.
 204{Joseph, father of Jesus}
He was the son of Jacob  and the adopted or legal son of Heli, both of the family of David.
Betrothed to Mary, he married her at the instigation of an angel, who informed him of her pregnancy by the Holy Spirit.
 With wife Mary and infant Jesus, he fled to Egypt, fearing Herod's wrath, after Herod's death they returned to Nazareth.
 He and his family went up to Jerusalem on two occasions, once to present Jesus to the Temple, and again, during Passover when Jesus was twelve years old.
 205{Joseph, son of Jacob}
 He was the first born son of Rachel.
 He received preferential treatment which angered his ten older brothers.
 His brothers faked his death to their father Jacob, and sold him to a caravan of Ishmaelite traders who were on their way to Egypt.
 God gave him the power to interpret dreams, and when the Pharaoh had two disturbing dreams, he was brought before the Pharaoh, and interpreted his dreams, of seven years of plenty, followed by seven years of famine.
 Pharaoh charged him, then at age thirty with the rank and authority of a viceroy.
He broke down on seeing his brothers (they did not recognize him at first), gave them food, and eventually had his entire family move to Egypt to live.
He had two sons by his Egyptian wife (Asenath), Manasseh and Ephraim.
He died at age 110, his body was embalmed in Egypt, and his bones returned to Canaan in the Exodus.
 203{Joseph of Arimathea}
He was a wealthy man from the Judean town of Arimathea.
 He was a follower of Jesus. He and Nicodemus buried Jesus after the crucifixion. 
He was bold enough to ask Pontius Pilate for the body of Jesus.
 321{Shadrach}
He was taken to Babylon with Daniel, Mishael, and Azariah after the siege of Jerusalem.
Because he would not worship the statue of Nebuchadnezzar, he was thrown into the furnace with his friends, Meshach and Abednego.
 252{Michal}
Michal was a wife of King David, and the younger daughter of King Saul.
 After David killed Goliath and became a hero in Israel, Saul offered his daughter Michal to David as his wife for "One hundred foreskins of the Philistines".
 Saul annulled the marriage of David to Michal and gave her to a man named Palti, as his wife.
Michal was taken from her husband Palti and returned to David.
 Michal's love for David turned to contempt, and as "David danced before the Lord with all his might," she scorned him.
 247{Meshach}
He was taken to Babylon with Daniel, Hananiah, and Azariah, by Nebuchadnezzar after the siege of Jerusalem.
 255 Later, because he would not worship the statue of Nebuchadnezzar, he was thrown into the furnace with his two friends, Shadrach and Abednego.{Moab}
 Moab was a son of Lot and a brother of Ben-Ammi.
 59{Ben-Ammi}
Ben-Ammi was a son of Lot and a brother of Moab.
 350{Zedekiah the false prophet}
Zedekiah advised King Ahab of Israel to attack the Syrian army at Ramoth Gilead.
 Zedekiah, who was the son of Chenaanah, made himself horns of iron and said, "The Lord says, 'With these you shall gore Aram until you have destroyed them'".
 351{Zedekiah, king of Judah}
He was a son of King Josiah and Hamutal, and uncle to King Jehoiachin.
 He was appointed King of Judah, after King Jehoiachin was exiled by King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon.
King Nebuchadnezzar laid siege to Jerusalem in the ninth year of his reign, and continued to the eleventh year.
He was taken to Riblah, where he was tried and sentenced before the King of Babylon.
 He was forced to watch as his sons were killed before his eyes, then his eyes were put out and he was taken to Babylon.
 258{Naaman}
Naaman was a Syrian army commander who had leprosy.
 He learned from a captive Israelite maid about a prophet named Elisha, in Israel, who could heal him.
Elisha sent a messenger telling Naaman to dip himself in the Jordan River seven times to be cured.
 Naaman worshiped God and took two mule loads of Israelite earth back to Syria, so he could worship the Lord "on Israel soil."
Naaman offered Elisha a gift for his healing, but Elisha did not accept it.
 It was after this that Gehazi, Elisha's servant, ran after Naaman, to get the money that was offered to Elisha, and keep it for himself.
 260{Naboth}
Naboth owned a vineyard next to the summer palace of King Ahab of Samaria.
Ahab offered Naboth a choice between being given a better vineyard or money, but Naboth refused the offer, because it was a family inheritance to be passed on to his descendants.
Jezebel obtained property for Ahab by bribing two men to bear false witness against Naboth, charging him publicly with treason.
Elijah said, "Where dogs licked up the blood of Naboth shall dogs lick your own blood."
 263{Nahor}
Nahor was the brother of Abraham and Haran, and the son of Terah.
 He had eight sons by Haran's daughter Milcah and four sons by his concubine Reumah.
 One of his children was Bethuel, the father of Laban and Rebekah.
 265{Naomi}
Naomi was the mother-in-law of Ruth.
 Due to a famine, Naomi left Bethlehem with her husband Elimelech and their two sons, Mahlon and Chilion, and migrated to Moab.
Her husband died and her two sons married Moabite women, Ruth and Orpah.
Naomi told her two daughter-in-laws to stay in Moab and find new husbands.
 Ruth accompanied Naomi back to Judah.
 266{Nathan}
 He told David not to build the Temple as David had planned, but that a son (Solomon) of his would build it instead.
 He told David his throne would be established forever.
 He confronted David with the double sin of having Uriah killed, and the adultery of Uriah's wife, Bathsheba.
Nathan predicted David would have trouble with his family all his life and his child by Bathsheba would die.
 As David was nearing death, it was through Nathan that Bathsheba related the news to David of the planned takeover of David's son Adonijah.
Nathan wrote a history of King Solomon, along with Ahijah the Shilonite and Iddo the seer.
 268{Nebuzaradan}
Nebuzaradan was a captain in Nebuchadnezzar's army.  After Jerusalem fell to the Babylonians, he came into the city and destroyed it.
 He freed the prophet Jeremiah from captivity in Jerusalem, and gave him a choice to go with him to Babylon or stay in Judah.
 269{Neco}
 He was the second king of Egypt's 26th dynasty.
As Neco and his army marched north to fight the Babylonians at Carchemish, Josiah, the King of Judah, went out to intercept him.
 272{Nicolaus}
He was one of the seven reputable men chosen by the Twelve Apostles, to handle the daily distribution to the community's widows and he was called "a proselyte of Antioch".
 334{Tamar, daughter-in-law of Judah}
Tamar was the widow of Judah's oldest son.
 According to custom, she was supposed to marry Judah's second son, Onan.
Judah's third son, Shelah, was next in line to marry Tamar, but Judah withheld Shelah from the marriage, fearing that he too would die.
 Tamar disguised herself as a harlot, and was hired by Judah - who did not recognize her as his former daughter-in-law.
 Tamar demanded Judah's staff and seal as a pledge of payment for her services.
 When she became pregnant, Tamar brought forth Judah's staff and seal, proving Judah was the father.
 She bore twin sons, Perez and Zerah.
 276{Obed-Edom}
Obed-Edom's home was used for a while to store the Ark of the Covenant, about 3000 years ago.
 "The Ark of the Lord remained in the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite for three months, and the Lord blessed Obed-Edom and his whole house.
When it was reported to King David that the Lord had blessed the family of Obed-Edom and all that belonged to him, David went to bring up the Ark of God from the house of Obed-Edom into the city of David amid festivities"
 277{Oded}
 After Pekah invaded Judah and defeated the army of King Ahaz, he brought 200,000 captives back to Samaria.  Oded went out to meet the army returning to Samaria, and convinced the leaders to free the captives.
 278{Og}
 He was the last remaining survivor of the Rephaim.
He had a bed of iron, nine regular cubits long and four wide. 
 282{Onan}
Onan was the second son of Judah.
 He refused to accept the obligation of marrying Tamar, who was the childless widow of his older brother.
 283{Onesimus}
Onesimus was the slave that fled from his master to Rome and met the apostle Paul.
 Philemon was Onesimus' master.
 Paul in his letter to Philemon offers to pay for any injustice that Onesimus might have done.
 284{Orpah}
Orpah was the sister-in-law to Ruth, and daughter-in-law to Naomi.
 When Naomi decided to return to Israel, she told Orpah and Ruth to stay in Moab and remarry.
 Ruth decided to go with Naomi to israel, but Orpah decided to stay in Moab.
 286{Palti}
 Saul gave his daughter to another man other than David named Palti.
 Michal was taken from Palti, who followed behind, "weeping after her"
 287{Pashhur}
The chief officer in the house of the Lord, Pashhur, had Jeremiah scourged and put in the stocks.
 206{Joshua}
The son of Nun of the tribe of Ephraim.
 Moses' successor as the leader of Israel.
 Of the twelve spies, Joshua and Caleb were the only two men who gave an encouraging report. 
 At an old age Joshua made a covenant with the people of Israel, at Shechem, committing them to a permanent and binding contract between themselves and God.  Soon after, he died at the age of 110, and was buried on his own estate at Timnath-sereh, in Ephraim.
 291{Peleg}
To Eber two sons were born: the name of the first was Peleg, for in his time the world was divided.
 293{Perez}
Perez was the first of twin sons born to Tamar after her encounter with Judah.
 300{Phoebe}
Paul writes in his letter to the Romans; "I commend to you Phoebe our sister, who is also a minister of the church at Cenchreae”. 
 302{Potiphar}
Potiphar was the chief steward of the Pharoah who bought Joseph from the Ishmaelites. 
 Potiphar had Joseph thrown in prison, but he did not have him executed, as the fit punishment would be for that crime.
 303{Potiphera}
Potiphera was Joseph's father-in-law.
 320{Seth}
Seth was the third child of Adam and Eve. 
 Seth had a son named Enosh.
 339{Theophilus}
 The Gospel of Luke and the Book of Acts are both addressed to Theophilus.
 324{Sheba}
 When David was returning to Jerusalem after the defeat of Absalom, Sheba raised the standard of revolt, proclaiming, "We have no part in David.”
 While Joab was engaged in laying siege to Abel-Bethmaachah, Sheba's head was, at the instigation of a "wise woman" thrown over the wall to the besiegers, and thus his revolt came to an end.
 210{Judas}
Judas Iscariot “man of Kerioth,” the son of Simon, was one of the twelve original apostles of Jesus.
 He was the treasurer of the twelve.
 He considered it a waste of money when Mary anointed Jesus with expensive oil.
 John states that Judas had often dipped into the funds for his own personal use, and that Judas cared little about using the money to help the poor.
Judas approached local community leaders, offering to deliver Jesus into their hands for 30 pieces of silver.
 Judas betrayed Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane.
 14{Abital}
Abital was a wife of King David and the mother of their son Shephatiah.
 28{Ahinoam}
Ahinoam, one of eight wives of King David, was the mother of David's first son, Amnon.
 Ahinoam, along with another of David's wives, Abigail, were captured by the Amalekites at Ziklag.
 35{Anna}
Anna was a prophetess who was present when Jesus was first presented to God at the Temple in Jerusalem.
 43{Asenath}
Asenath was an Egyptian and the daughter of Potipherah, who was a priest of On.
 Asenath became the wife of Joseph 
 Asenath was the mother of sons Manasseh and Ephraim. 
 45{Atarah}
Atarah was a wife of Jerahmeel, grandson of Pharez, and mother of a son named Oman 
 46{Azubah}
Azubah was married to Caleb and hese were her sons: Jesher, Shobab and Ardon.
 211{Jude}
Jude's book is the 21st book of the New Testament.  It consists one chapter with 25 verses.
 Jude calls himself the “brother of James”.
 55{Basemath}
Basemath, the daughter of Elon, and Judith, the daughter of Beeri, married Esau when he was 40 years old.
Basemath and Judith, both of whom were daughters of Hittite fathers, were a source of grief for Esau's parents, Isaac and Rebekah.
 56{Bathsheba}
Bathsheba was the daughter of Eliam and the wife of Uriah the Hittite.
 She married King David and became the mother of King Solomon.
 David committed adultery with and they had a child who died. 
 221{Lazarus}
Lazarus was a brother to Martha and Mary who lived in Bethany.
 When Jesus and His disciples arrived at Bethany, they were told Lazarus had already been in His tomb for four days.
 Jesus told them to open the tomb, then Jesus looked to heaven, said a prayer to the Father, and then shouted “Lazarus come out.”
 The resurrection of Lazarus so shocked the chief priest and Pharisees, they decided to kill Jesus “before the whole nation follows him, and then the Roman army will come and kill us”.
 91{Eglah}
Eglah was one of eight wives of King David.  She gave birth to a son named Ithream, who was born in Hebron.
 101{Elisheba}
Elisheba was a wife of Aaron.  She gave birth to Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
 107{Ephah}
Ephah is listed as being a concubine of Caleb, who was a prince of Judah, and the mother of Haran, Moza and Gazez.
 109{Ephrath}
Ephrath was the woman Caleb married after his wife Azubah died. 
 113{Eunice}
Eunice was the mother of Timothy:
 114{Euodia}
 Paul wrote: "I plead with Euodia and I plead with Syntyche to be of the same mind in the Lord".
 333{Syntyche}
Paul wrote: "I plead with Euodia and I plead with Syntyche to be of the same mind in the Lord".
 137{Hamutal}
Hamutal was the wife of King Josiah and the mother of Jehoahaz and Zedekiah. 
 She was the daughter of a man named Jeremiah and she was born in the town of Libnah.
 141{Hephzibah}
Hephzibah was the wife of King Hezekiah and mother of their son, Manasseh, who ruled as king over Judah for 55 years.
 149{Hoglah}
 Hoglah and her sisters argued before Moses that they should inherit their deceased father's possessions, because he had no sons to inherit them.
 225{Luke}
Luke was a physician and traveling companion of Paul.
He wrote the book of Acts. 
 172{Jedidah}
Jedidah was the mother of Josiah, who became King of Judah when he was 8-years old.
 173{Jehoaddan}
Jehoaddan was the mother of Amaziah, who became King of Judah after his father, Joash, was murdered.
 183{Jemimah}
Jemimah was the first of three daughters of Job.
 187{Jerusha}
Jerusha was a daughter of Zadok, a priest during the time when King David reigned over Israel.
 Jerusha married King Uzziah and gave birth to a son, Jotham, who became King of Israel.
 213{Keren-Happuch}
Keren-Happuch was the third of three daughters of Job.
 215{Keziah}
Keziah was the second of three daughters of Job.
 229{Malachi}
The Bible's book of Malachi is the last book of the twelve minor prophets, and the last book in the Old Testament.
 253{Milkah}
Milkah became the wife of her uncle Nahor and gave birth to eight sons, including Bethuel, who became the father of Rebekah and Laban.
 234{Martha}
Mary and Martha were sisters, and with their brother Lazarus, lived in Bethany, near Jerusalem.
 When Lazarus fell ill, Mary and Martha sent for Jesus.
 While Martha was cooking dinner for Jesus and His disciples, Mary was listening to Jesus as He talked.
Martha complained to Jesus “Sir, doesn't it seem unfair to you that my sister just sits here while I do all the work? tell her to come and help me”.
 233{Mark}
 Mark was a cousin to Barnabas who he accompanied with Barnabas and Paul on their first missionary journey.
 257{Naamah}
Naamah was a wife of King Solomon and the mother of King Rehoboam.
 237{Mary the Mother of James and Joseph}
 She was the mother of James and Joseph.  She followed Jesus from Galilee, and watched from a distance when Jesus was crucified.
 She was a sister of Jesus' mother, and the wife of Cliopas.
 280{Oholibamah}
Oholibamah was a Canaanite and was one of the wives of Esau, who founded the country of Edom near the land that became Israel.
 Oholibamah was the mother of sons Jeush, Jalam and Korah, who each became the patriarch of a tribe of Edomites.
 292{Peninnah}
Peninnah, along with Hannah, were the two wives of Elkanah.
 During her time of barreness, Hannah was taunted by Peninnah.
 305{Puah}
Puah and Shiprah were midwives in Egypt during the time that the Israelites were enslaved in Egypt.
 The Pharaoh of Egypt, fearing the growth of the population of the Israelites within his country ordered Puah and Shiprah to destroy the male children of the Israelites as they were born.
Puah and Shiprah did not carry out the Pharaoh's order.
 328{Shiprah}
Puah and Shiprah were midwives in Egypt during the time that the Israelites were enslaved in Egypt.
 The Pharaoh of Egypt, fearing the growth of the population of the Israelites within his country ordered Puah and Shiprah to destroy the male children of the Israelites as they were born.
Puah and Shiprah did not carry out the Pharaoh's order.
 314{Salome}
Salome was present at the site of the crucifixion when Jesus died, watching from a distance with a group of women, including Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of James.
After Jesus was placed in a tomb, Salome and the two Marys went to the tomb only to find that the stone placed at the tomb's entrance had been removed.
 317{Sapphira}
Sapphira and her husband Ananias sold a piece of land that they owned and gave the proceeds to the Apostles, but secretly held back some of the money for themselves.
Peter said to her, "How could you conspire to test the Spirit of the Lord? Listen! The feet of the men who buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out also.
 235{Mary the Mother of Jesus}
Mary, the mother of Jesus, was betrothed to Joseph when the angel Gabriel appeared to her and announced that she would bear a son, conceived by the Holy Spirit.
 During her pregnancy she visited her cousin Elizabeth, who was at that time pregnant with the baby who would become John the Baptist.
After the birth of Jesus in Bethlehem, Joseph took Mary and her Child to Egypt to escape Herod's plans to kill Jesus.
 355{Zilpah}
 Zilpah gave birth to two of the sons who became patriarchs of two of the 12 Tribes of Israel - Asher and Gad.
Laban gave Zilpah to Leah when she was married to Jacob.
 326{Shimeath}
Shimeath was a Ammonite woman who was the mother of Jozabad, also known as Zabad, who killed King Joash of Judah.
 327{Shimrith}
Shimrith, who also was known as Shomer, was a Moabite woman who was the mother of Jehozabad who killed King Joash of Judah.
 238{Mary the Mother of John Mark}
She was the mother of John Mark, the author of the second Gospel.
After Peter was freed from prison by an angel, he fled to her house to hide.
 336{Tamar, daughter of King David}
She was a daughter of King David by Maacah, and the sister of Absalom.
 She was raped by her half-brother, Amnon, who pretended to be sick, and had Tamar bring food to him in his bedroom.
 To erase her shame, she urged Amnon to marry her.
 She took her problem to her full brother, Absalom, who waited until the time was right, then arranged Amnon's murder at a party.
 335{Tamar, daughter of Absalom}
Absalom had three sons born to him. She was Absalom’s daughter and was a beautiful woman.
 345{Vashti}
 She refused the king's request for her to appear before guests at a banquet that he had organized, and she was removed as queen.
 239{Mary the Sister of Martha}
She lived with her brother Lazarus in Bethany, near Jerusalem.
 When Lazarus fell ill, she sent for Jesus.
 She rebuked Jesus: “If You had been here my brother would not have died”.
While her sister was cooking dinner for Jesus and His disciples, she was listening to Jesus as He talked.
 18{Adah}
Esau took wives among the women of Canaan, including a woman named Adah, who was the daughter of Elon the Hittite. 
 Adah gave birth to a son named Eliphaz, the firstborn of Esau. 
 20{Agabus}
He travelled Jerusalem to Antioch and prophesied about a severe famine that would occur in the Roman world.
Agabus travels from Jerusalem to Caesarea, where Paul the Evangelist has just completed his third missionary journey.  Agabus then gives Paul a prophecy that Paul would be arrested if he returned to Jerusalem.
 236{Mary Magdalene}
Mary Magdalene was the first person to see Jesus after he was resurrected.
 240{Matthew}
 He was a tax collector before he was called by Jesus to be an apostle.
 Known formally as Levi, son of Alphaeus, Matthew wrote the first book of the New Testament.
 33{Amos}
Amos was a herdsman who lived in the village of Tekoa, before becoming a prophet during the reign of King Uzziah.
His book is third book in the twelve minor prophets according to Hebrew order.
 249{Micah}
 He was a prophet who lived in a small town (Moresheth) south of Jerusalem.
Micah has a handful of famous prophecies including the coming of the Messiah, and that the humble little town of Bethlehem, not Jerusalem, would be the birthplace of the Messiah.
 Micah was the first prophet to foresee Jerusalem's destruction as a punishment for the city's sins against the Lord.
The Bible's book of Micah is the sixth of the books of the twelve minor prophets.
 264{Nahum}
 The Bible's book of Nahum is short in length and consists almost entirely of a prophecy of Nineveh's destruction.
 His book is the seventh of the twelve minor prophets.
 270{Nehemiah}
Nehemiah, son of Hacaliah, was a cupbearer of the Persian King Artaxerxes.
Despite opposition from his enemies, Sanballat and Tobiah, he succeeded in rebuilding the walls in 52 days, and stationed guards at the city gates.
 274{Noah}
Son of Lamech, Noah was one of eight people that lived before, during, and after the Great Flood.
 275{Obadiah}
 His book is the shortest book in the Old Testament, consisting of only one chapter with 21 verses.
The Bible's book of Obadiah is the fourth of the twelve minor prophets.
 288{Paul}
Paul, the evangelist, was known as Saul before he became a Christian.
He took care of the cloaks of those who threw stones at Stephen. 
On his way to Damascus to persecute Christian believers, he was stopped by a blinding light.
He is the author of thirteen New Testament letters - Romans, 1 and 2 Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, 1 and 2 Thessalonians, 1 and 2 Timothy, Titus, and Philemon.
 294{Peter}
Peter (also known as Simon) was one of the original 12 apostles.
 He became the leader of the apostles, after Jesus' ascension.
 He was a fisherman with his brother Andrew.
 When Jesus called him to be an apostle, he was given the added name Cephas (Aramaic: “stone,” Greek: “Petros,” which in English is rendered as Peter).
When Jesus asked him “Who do you say I am?” Peter made that famous statement, “You are the Christ (Messiah) the Son of the Living God.”
He was the apostle who walked on water.
Jesus healed Malchus' ear after Peter cut it off. 
 295{Philemon}
Philemon had a slave named Onesimus who ran away.
 Paul wrote a letter to Philemon to ask him to receive Onesimus back as a Christian brother, rather than as a slave.
 34{Andrew}
Andrew was one of the original 12 apostles.
 He was the son of a man named Jonah (sometimes the name is rendered as John), and brother of Simon Peter.
He became convinced that Jesus was the Messiah and brought his brother Peter to see Jesus.
It was Andrew who inquired about the signs that would mark the end times.
 Andrew also was the one who called attention to the boy who had loaves and fishes, when Jesus fed the 5000. 
 296{Philip the Apostle}
He became the sixth disciple of Jesus, and introduced his friend Nathanael to Jesus, who also became an apostle.
When Jesus was about to perform a miracle and feed a multitude of people with a small amount of food, Jesus asked him where they should buy the bread to feed the people.
A group of Greek Jews who were in Jerusalem for Passover asked him to have him introduce them to Jesus.
 During the Last Supper, he asked Jesus to show them the Father.
 297{Philip the Evangelist}
 He converted Simon the magician.
 He received the message from an angel to meet a man from Ethiopia in Gaza, a eunuch of great authority under Queen Candace, and inspired the Ethiopian to be baptized.
His four unmarried daughters had the gift of prophecy.
 301{Pontius Pilate}
 He was in residence in Jerusalem during Passover when Jesus was arrested and put on trial, and it was he who pronounced the sentence of death.
 309{Rehoboam}
Rehoboam, son of Solomon and Naamah the Ammonitess, became the first ruler of the Southern Kingdom of Judah at age 41.
 Rehoboam refused to alleviate the burdens of taxation and forced labor, which Solomon had laid upon them, and the northern tribes seceded from the state, proclaiming Jeroboam as their king.
 Rehoboam tried to force the northern tribes to acknowledge him as their king, but God sent the prophet Shemaiah to stop the war before it started.
 Rehoboam, at the height of his power, abandoned the lord.
King Shishak of Egypt attacked Jerusalem in the fifth year of Rehoboam's reign.
 315{Samson}
 Samson had great strength, he killed a lion with his bare hands, and later killed 1,000 Philistines with a jawbone of a donkey.
The five leaders of the Philistine nation went to Delilah, and demanded that she find out from Samson what made him so strong, so they could subdue him.
 Losing his strength, he was captured by the Philistines, who gouged out his eyes, and made him grind grain in prison.
He killed more Philistines at the time of his death, than during his entire lifetime.
 His brothers brought him back home and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol, where his father, Manoah was buried.
 319{Saul}
He was the first king of Israel.
He became king at about the time that Samuel had retired as the last Judge of Israel.
Saul did not obey the Lord, and kept some of the loot after defeating the Amalekites.  For this, God rejected Saul as king of Israel.
After David killed Goliath, Saul made David his special assistant, and as David succeeded in everything he did, Saul grew extremely jealous.
 Saul became possessed by an evil spirit, went into fits of anger and tried to kill David several times.
 He threw a spear at his own son Jonathan, who had become David's close friend.
He traveled to En Dor to consult a witch about the outcome of a battle.
 On Mount Gilboa, Saul and his three sons were killed.
 David, after learning of Saul's death, moved to Hebron and was crowned king of the Judean confederacy.
 329{Silas}
 In Jerusalem he was a prophet who preached and was sent to Antioch, along with Paul and Barnabas, to convey resolutions adopted at the council of Jerusalem.
After a disagreement between Paul and Barnabas, Paul selected Silas to be his companion on his second missionary journey, and Silas accompanied him through Galatia.
 In Philippi, Paul and Silas were cast into prison because of their preaching the Gospel.
Silas and Timothy stayed in Berea when Paul continued alone to Athens. 
 331{Solomon}
Solomon, the son of King David and Bathsheba, was the third king of Israel.
Solomon was anointed king when his older brother, Adonijah, rashly tried to proclaim himself as ruler when their father, King David, became old.
The Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream and told him to ask for anything he wanted.
It was in the fourth year of Solomon's reign, that he began the construction of the Temple.  Seven years later it was completed, and the Ark of the Covenant was moved from the Tabernacle to the Temple.
 He built a large palace for himself, Fort Millo, the wall of Jerusalem, and the cities of Hazor, Megiddo and Gezer.
He built a fleet of ships to bring gold in from Ophir.
 People from many lands came to visit him and to listen to his God-given wisdom, including the Queen of Sheba.
Solomon took many foreign wives - 700 wives and 300 concubines, and they turned his heart away from the Lord.
After Solomon's death his son, Rehoboam, became King of Judah, while an enemy of Solomon, Jeroboam, became king of the northern tribes.
Solomon was the author of 3,000 proverbs and wrote 1,005 songs.
 340{Thomas}
 On the evening of the day of the resurrection, Thomas declined to believe that Jesus had appeared to the other disciples, hence the term “doubting Thomas.”
when Jesus appeared to them on another occasion.
 40{Asa}
Asa was the third king of Judah.
 He was the son and successor of Abijah.  His mother was Maachah.
 He demoted Maachah from her position as Queen Mother because of her paganism.
 He was attacked by troops from Ethiopia under the leadership of General Zerah.
 Asa paid King Ben-hadad of Syria to help him defeat King Baasha.
 The Israelites were defeated, but God, through the prophet Hanani, let Asa know that he had made a mistake by going to Syria for help, instead of God.
 His son, Jehoshaphat, became king.
 341{Timothy}
 A native of Lystra in the province of Galatia, Timothy was the son of a Jewish mother and a Gentile father.
 His mother, Eunice, and grandmother, Lois, were believers in Jesus.
Timothy is named as co-author of seven of Paul's letters.
 342{Titus}
 After visiting the island of Crete with Paul, Titus stayed on the island in order to oversee the organization and growth of the newly-founded churches there.
The letter written by Paul to Titus is the 17th book in the New Testament.
 352{Zephaniah}
 His book is the ninth book of the Minor Prophets.
 176{Jehoiachin}
Jehoiachin, all of his officials, and the queen mother surrendered to Nebuchadnezzar.
Jehoiachin was imprisoned in Babylon during the eighth year of Nebuchadnezzar's reign.
The king of Babylon appointed Jehoiachin's uncle, Mattaniah, to be the next king, and changed his name to Zedekiah.
 After Nebuchadnezzar's death, he was brought to the royal palace by the new King Evil-Merodach and he was treated as a royal hostage. 
 175{Jehoahaz, King of Judah}
 He was the fourth son and successor of Josiah.  His mother's name was Hamutal.
Pharoah Neco removed him from the throne and sent him to Egypt, where he later died.
 174{Jehoahaz, King of Israel}
He was the eleventh King of the northern kingdom of Israel.
King Hazael and his son Ben-Hadad invaded Israel, but he prayed for the Lord's help, and the Lord raised up leaders within Israel and defeated the Syrians.
When he died, his son Joash became king.
 207{Josiah}
Josiah, son of King Amon, and mother Jedidah, became King of Judah at age 8, and reigned 31 years.
A scroll was found in the Temple by Hilkiah the High Priest.  The scroll, containing the Laws of God, was read to King Josiah.
King Neco of Egypt led his army against the Assyrians, and warned King Josiah not to interfere while his army passed through Judah.
Josiah's son, Jehoahaz, was selected as the new king.
 178{Jehoiakim}
Jehoiakim was the son of Josiah and Zebidah.
 At age 25, he was made king by Pharoah Neco in place of his brother Jehoahaz, who was exiled to Egypt.
When Jehoiakim died, his son, Jehoiachin, became the new king.
 32{Amon}
Amon, son of King Manasseh, and mother Meshullemeth, became king of Judah at age 22.
His own officers assassinated him in his palace.  Then, some citizens killed all those who assassinated him, and declared his son Josiah to be the new king.
 23{Ahaz}
Ahaz, King of Judah, was 20 years old when he became king.  His father was King Jotham.
 The Lord allowed the king of Syria to defeat Ahaz, King of Judah, and to deport large numbers of his people to Damascus.
When King Ahaz died, he was buried in Jerusalem but not in the royal tombs, and Hezekiah became the new king.
 147{Hezekiah}
Hezekiah, son of King Ahaz, and Abijah, became king at age 25.
King Sennacherib invaded Judah, surrounded Jerusalem, and sent Hezekiah a letter, stating, basically, that Judah should surrender, claiming that the Assyrian gods were stronger than the Lord God.
The Lord healed Hezekiah of a deathly sickness, after Hezekiah had prayed, and added 15 years to his life.
 When he died, his son Manasseh became the new king.
 344{Uzziah}
Uzziah, also known as Azariah (“Yahweh is my strength”) became King of Judah at age 16 and reigned 52 years.
God helped him in wars against the Philistines, against the Arabs of Gurbaal, and the Meunites.
 He sinned against the Lord by personally burning incense upon the altar of the Temple.  The High Priest went in after him and demanded that he get out.  Uzziah refused to set down the incense burner that he was holding, and suddenly leprosy appeared on his forehead.
His son, Jotham, became vice-regent in charge of the king's affairs, and became king after his father's death.
 31{Amaziah}
Amaziah, the son of King Joash, and Jehoaddin, became king at age 25, and reigned 29 years.
 Amaziah assembled an army from Judah and Benjamin, and re-conquered Edom, which had gained its independence from Judah about 50 year's earlier.
Amaziah was assassinated by his enemies in Lachish.
His son Uzziah (also known as Azariah) became king.
 316{Samuel}
Samuel, the son of Elkanah, and his wife Hannah, was a prophet and the last of Israel's Judges.
 God told Samuel to anoint Saul, son of Kish, as king, and so the people got what they wanted.
God had Samuel anoint young David to be the next king.
 313{Ruth}
 After the death of Elimelech, his sons married two Moabite women named Orpah and Ruth.
 Naomi decided to return to Bethlehem and Ruth insisted on joining her, saying “Your people shall be my people, and your God my God”.
Boaz and Ruth got married.
 51{Barnabas}
 He was a Levite from Cyprus, who, having sold his property, gave all his money to the apostles.
Barnabas persuaded the Jerusalem community to accept Paul.
Barnabas went to Antioch to assist the rapidly growing group of believers there, and he brought Paul from Tarsus to Antioch.
Paul and Barnabas separated, each going his own way.  Paul went with Silas, while Barnabas took Mark and sailed to Cyprus.
 306{Rachel}
Rachel was Laban's second daughter, and Jacob's second wife.
  Jacob struck a deal with Laban that he would work for Laban for seven years to get permission to marry Rachel.
 Laban tricked Jacob into marrying Leah, who was Rachel's older sister.
Unlike her sister, Leah, Rachel struggled to conceive children.
She presented her handmaid, Bilhah, to Jacob, for the purpose of bearing children.
Rachel gave birth to Joseph and Benjamin.
 222{Leah}
Leah was Laban's oldest daughter.
 She became Jacob's first wife and the mother of six of his sons.
When she stopped producing children, she gave Jacob her handmaid, Zilpah, who bore two other children, Gad and Asher.
 318{Sarah}
Sarah was Abraham's wife and Isaac's mother.
Abraham, at times, claimed that Sarah was his sister, because he feared that someone would kill him out of lust for Sarah.
She gave her handmaiden, Hagar, to Abraham for the purpose of having a child.
 308{Rebekah}
 She was the wife of the patriarch Isaac, who was Abraham's son.
 She was the mother of Jacob and Esau.
 Rebekah gave birth to twin sons, Jacob and Esau.
 She helped Jacob to deceive Isaac and to get Isaac's blessing that had been intended for Esau.
Isaac told a Philistine king that Rebekah was his sister, rather than his wife.  He did this because he was afraid that people might lust so strongly for Rebekah that they would kill him if they knew he was her husband.
 135{Ham}
Ham was the youngest of Noah's three sons.
 His brothers were Shem and Japheth.
 170{Japheth}
 His two brothers were Ham and Shem.
 325{Shem}
 His two brothers were Ham and Japheth.
 273{Nimrod}
Nimrod was the son of Cush.  He was the first of the kings and a mighty hunter.
 He built Nineveh, Rehoboth-Ir, Calah, and Resen. 
 111{Esau}
Esau and Jacob were twins, born to Isaac and Rebekah.
 Esau became the ancestor of the people of Edom.One day, Esau returned from an unsuccessful hunting trip and was famished.  He saw that Jacob had been cooking food and he asked for a serving.
After Jacob had gotten the blessing from his father, Esau vowed to kill Jacob.
 95{Eli}
 It was to him that Hannah entrusted her son, Samuel, to be raised.
 Although he was High Priest, Eli failed to curb the sinful behavior of his sons, Hophni and Phinehas, who were priests.
Eli's sons were killed as they accompanied the Ark of the Covenant into a battle against the Philistines.  When Eli had heard the news, he fell backwards while seated in a chair, broke his neck and died.
{
